---
date: 2025-10-27
title: Matsushima and a cruise in the ocean
---

Despite a fairly rough and tiring day yesterday, the sun gleaming into my bedroom at 7:30 in the morning was enough to wake me up from a short sleep and to kick start my day.

Today we decided to head down to a town a couple train stops away that had been recommended by friends because of its scenic bay views. A stop in the conbini as a natural waking action for an iced coffee started the day before we packed our bags and headed out.

The train was quiet and the station we arrived at almost seemed deserted in its mossy and overgrown nature, it had a charm to it. We headed down towards the bay and purchased some tickets for a cruise that would take us around the water and the islands near Matsushima.

After the sweaty walking around the bay, the sea breeze as we stood out on the second level deck was refreshing. We got to see many of the small islands and odd natural occurrences around the area. It was a sight to behold.

Before heading back to Sendai, we stopped and had some lunch and a small place and we had some sushi, which I followed with a lemon sour. Classic.

Back into Sendai, we discovered Zuihōden. Wandering back we searched for some bars or somewhere we could eat. We ended up at a small Irish bar, where the bartenders seemed very keen to have a chat to us about the drinks, devhouse, and what we were up to.

One of the bartenders recommended a nice place for us to go and have some dinner after. We walked to this place and was met with a door that was half as tall as we were. We weren't even sure if it was open but we entrusted in our translation and stepped inside to this beautiful restaurant.

We had rounds of karaage chicken, gyoza, sukiyaki and more. It was very delicious. The place was classically Japanese themed and was very cozy inside.

Following we had a brief search for a bar to continue the night but to no avail we instead headed back to the airbnb where we instead finished the night with rounds of strong zeroes.
