---
title: Lake Biwa
date: 2026-06-14
draft: false
---

The idea started off tha back of a friend's journey a few years before. My first time in Japan in May of 2023 I went with my brother, and timed it so that we would meet up with a friend over there at the same time. We both landed in Tokyo in the middle of May, she had already been there for a while beforehand and in our first few days had returned from a 14 day cycle from Tokyo to Osaka and back. I admired the effort at the time, and through later visits to Japan I feel like I needed more of an excuse to go back. The second trip was a group so of course I would join that. The third trip was to go and see the snow in Sapporo. The fourth trip was another group trip, but I needed a little convining to make yet another trip.

During our planning for this group trip we were looking at how we map out the places we visit and as our last visit was just Tokyo and Osaka we wanted to see more of the country, and had added in Sendai, Fukuoka, and Okayama. This was all over the course of 3 weeks, but it also included a fun little curve ball. The first week was Sendai and Tokyo, then the third week was Fukuoka, Okayama, and Osaka. The middle week we left as a wildcard that we called the "Dealer's Week", a week free not with the group, where everyone would take a week to do whatever they wanted, meeting back up on the other side of the country 7 days later. One of the people in the group thought this would be a good opportunity to make their way across the country via Kanazawa and some other cities along the way towards Fukuoka. I decided this would be the perfect opportunity to get in a multi-day cycle across Japan.

My plan was to cycle in a similar fashion from Tokyo to Osaka in the 7 days and then train to Fukuoka on the final day, and I started planning for this, mapping out all the cities and towns that I would stop at and mapping out the full route. Then came to planning the actual bike itself. I had found a few bike rental shops in Tokyo and Osaka but it seemed that trying to get a shop that supports one-way trips between these two cities was proving difficult. My first idea to get around this was to ship the bike either way, and it seemed the better direction was to get a shop in Osaka to ship the bike out to Tokyo and I would return it upon arrival, though because we were staying in an Airbnb this would require me to be present on the expected day of delivery because the window for delivery would be too wide and I had to be there to accept it. This would effectively lose a day or a chunk of a day just waiting around, and with only a couple days in Tokyo I didn't want it to go to waste.

Instead my other plan was to plan out a route that started and ended in the same location and that way I wouldn't need to worry about the logistics of getting the bike from A to B. I had done some research on well reviewed cycling routes around Japan and had come across two good options. The first, and probably the more well known option, was the Shimani Kaido, a 70km, island hopping route that was highly reviewed and the default option for a good cycle in Japan. My only issue was I wanted to fill my 7 days with this cycle, and even doubling the distance for a return trip and adding some trips out and about resulted in a distance that would leave each day to ~25-30km, and while not a short distance by any means it was a little unsatisfactory, I knew I could achieve more.

My second option was a loop around Lake Biwa, or Biwako, around the Biwaichi cycling path that circled the lake. A round trip of about 200km, I figured if I added a few trips straying from the path, and rented a bike from one of the well known shops in Osaka I could push the distance to allow for about 50km each day, which was more in my realm. So I mapped out a route starting from Osaka, heading up through Kyoto and to Otsu where I would then cycle counter-clockwise around the lake along the marked cycling path, cross over the mountains to the northern shore of the country in Tsuruga, and then back lake continuing around to where I started before heading back to Osaka to safely return the bike to the same shop I rented it from originally. With everything mapped out I booked all of the accomodations I needed for the route and booked in the bike and a couple months later I was in Osaka the morning of my first day ready to head off, bike in hand.

With everything I thought I needed to survive two weeks packed into two panniers either side of my back wheel, I headed up north along the Ogawa river, naively ready for smooth 7 day cycle. The cycle up to Kyoto was relatively flat and rather unchallenging other than few small hills along the way. Although by the time I reach Kyoto I had realised my first challenge. Although the path around the lake was fully marked making it hard to get lost, there is no marked cycling path from Osaka to Otsu, and here I was in Kyoto having just followed the Yodogawa river as far as it took me, I was now in an industrial part of town and clearly not on course to where I needed to go. I checked maps and got myself back on track, a reroute that would add about 20km to the day putting me at 70km. This ended up being my longest day because thankfully I managed to not get myself lost on later days.

However, once I pulled out of Kyoto I realised my next mistake in the (mis)planning. The hills. As it turns out there's a mountain range that seperates Kyoto and Otsu and the only way for me to make it to the other side was to climb over these mountains. A climb I really wasn't prepared for. With a reminder that I have 6 more days of this to come, I accepted fate and to put everything I had into grinding those gears. Everything I had to stay put in the seat and not give up to walk the bike. Everything I had to climb what was the biggest climb I'd ever done, and still remains to be today. Absolutely exhausted I made it to the top of that mountain, or at least the passing, and ever so gently floated back down the other side into Otsu, catching up on the breath I had just lost.

After a gentle arrival into Otsu I was absolutely hammered. I wasn't planning on any day being this hard, despite only being 70km, when you add in the climbs I was destroyed. I arrived into Otsu a little earlier than checkin was, as it was only a small guesthouse they had a later checkin time so I thought I'd use this time to just ride along the lake, admiring the sheer size of it, and imaginging myself riding around it's edge distantly into the slowly dissappearing shoreline. I went for a ride along from where the guesthouse was, into town and where they board all of cruises, the main part of town. As this was a heavily pedestrainised part of town the path was all concreted and flat which made for an easy ride.

That is until you ride the bike along the edge of two concrete slabs that are slightly off-level, and just enough to notice my back wheel move sideways every so slightly. Enough to feel that something was up. I get off and look down and sure enough I've given myself a flat. Nice. I had a spare tube in the under-seat pouch that came with the bike so I wasn't too worried. I would walk the bike back to the guesthouse and then worry about fixing it then. I'm no stranger to replacing a tube so I wasn't worried about this whole ordeal. I walk the bike back, check in, they ask if the bike outside was mine and if I wanted to store it, I accepted. Now being a guesthouse, there wasn't a lot of room here so the bike ended up staying in their garage which was already quite packed. This put a little dint in my plan to fix the tube tonight but I'd figure that I'd just fix it in the morning after I checked out.

I climb up the small staircase to my room, find my bed and just completely pass out. My original plan was to ride to each town, explore around for a bit, grab some dinner, and then go to bed. But I was absolutely wrecked. I force myself to get back out of bed at around 9 and go and find some ramen to eat for dinner before everything shuts and I leave myself starving. After a hearty bowl of ramen, satisfied I head back for some rest. With the biggest climbs I'd ever done I was really rethinking my plan to ride from the lake up to Tsuruga because this would involve another set of climbs on consecutive days that I really wasn't looking forward to. I decided to cancel on this leg, and just stay in Makino for two days instead. A decision that would later save me. Morning comes around and I check out, thank them for the space and have a bit of a chat and then I grab my bike from their garage before heading out.

It's raining, I'd already checked out and I still need a place to fix the wheel. I find a park across the road with some small amount of cover and quickly run for it, trying not to get too wet. I turn the bike on its' seat and get to work taking the wheel off, pulling the tyre off, taking the tube out and seeing where it was flat. Right along a seam, which is the worse place to try and repair because the lift of the seem also lifts any patches you put on it so it's like to just slowly leak over time. With that in mind I just replaced the tube with the spare that I had been given. That's exactly what the tube is for but leaves me with an issue, that I now no longer have a spare tube to fix any more flats that come up so I just need to hope for my best luck.

I get back on the bike, the rain has started to clear up now and I make my way to Higashiomi, constantly looking for somwhere to buy some more tubes as I'm acutely aware that I'm basically riding naked and unprotected. With no train stations along the way I rode as carefully as I could. After a few hours I make it there alive, though with no tubes in hand still. Today's ride was were civilisation started to thin out, the house and shops started slowly disappearing, and along with that the bike shops also ceased to exist. Though now with a day's ride without any issues, maybe, I can just put it off until tomorrow, I mean I'd have to.

The next day I head up towards Nagahama but with a plan. I'd be passing by Hikone, a city not large by any means but large enough to have its own castle and by that metric hopefully big enough to have a bike shop too. I cycle there, stop in at the castle and spend lunch there having a wander around visiting the castle. While I'm stopped I search up nearby shops and thankfully there was a single shop a few blocks ride away. I hope back on and ride straight for the shop. Much to my relief I found plenty of spare tubes and checked out with two, a pair and a spare. Just in case I needed to use one of the tubes, I would still have a spare and wouldn't be stressed out in the sparse countryside with no plan B.

The rest of the ride to Nagahama was rather unspectacular. It was at this point the silence of the empty plains really sank in. I would go an hour without passing any cars and there were certainly no other cyclists that I'd pass. It was just me and the bike. I had no more issues with the bike today and so checked in for the night. With no stresses I headed out in the morning on day four headed for the next town of Makino. This ride was also quite uneventful, and other than a small few climbs I reached in Makino in a short time thanks to the day's short ride. I got there a little early for checkin and so I went for a bit of a ride around the town, there was apparently a nice tree-lined avenue that wasn't too far away so I went to go check it out.

Now being a small town, and riding the back roads off to this avenute, the roads are not the most routinely maintained you've seen. No real cycling infrastructure and the concrecte and tar was pot-filled and cracked everywhere, just enough to make a ride a little uncomfortable. Apparently also enough to give you a flat tyre. Great. I mean I'd just seen the roads and their poor condition so this one's really on me, I should've just gotten off and walked. I find a park nearby with a little gazebo and walk the bike in a walk of shame. I prop the bike on its seat and get to work. After some practise just two days ago I get this one replaced pretty quickly and get back on my way. I had bought two spares for a reason and so I still had insurance wasn't worried.

I head back for the avenue. I get maybe 100 metres and feel a certain softness I'm all to familiar with. I look down at the back tyre, flat. Even greater. Probably a bad seating or something in the tyre that I should've checked for. I walk back to the park, insurance in hand, and get to work replacing the tube in the same gazebo I was just in. With a second round of practise I get this replaced in no time. Eager to see this avenue before the sun sets I jet back off again.

This time I make it 50 metres, soft, another flat. I look down and sure enough my back wheel is now flat for the fourth time, the third in less than an hour. This time I'm really screwed, I've just used up my pair and a spare, and after checking the flat is on the seam again, a patch that won't last a whole day. I'm basically stranded in this small town, with no bike shop in sight, and no way to ride out of this ride.

Now luckily for my cowardess after the first day with cancelling my leg up to Tsuruga I was now staying in Makino for two days. With not much to really do in this town I'm not really sure why I chose this as the place to stay an extra day, but nonetheless it worked in my favour because I now had a whole day to do something to get me out of this situation. I spent the spare day shamefully catching the once-an-hour train all the way down to Kyoto where I knew I could find many bikeshops and would certainly be able to get a spare tube. I found a well reputable shop in the city, did my research on the correct sizing of tube to buy suspecting this was my reason for two consecutive flats, and headed back for Makino. The full trip took my whole day from this town, but being back in the city with people and things happening after a few days of quiet and silence was refreshing.

On the second morning I checked out and went to work on the bike in the middle of the carpark. I once again was down to one spare, but I had a worked wheel once again, and putting confidence in myself I just hoped everything would be fine from here on out. It was. I headed back down to Otsu and as a mark of accomplishment found my way back to the starting point where I was crouched over the bike in the rain in a park four days prior. The next day I carried myself back down the hills back towards Osaka, the same hills I encountered on day one.

I walked them this time. I had already lost my ego after cancelling a leg of the trip that would take me either side of the country, being crouched over the bike repairing it in a park in the rain, getting three consecutive flats in an hour, and spending a full day catching trains going into the city instead of cycling in rural countryside. I really didn't feel like I had much to prove at this point and just wanted to finish the ride at this point. I had friends who were already in Fukuoka that were waiting for me to arrive to share my stories over a few beers.

Finally back in Osaka I returned the bike back to the store I rented it from. The lady noticing the tube missing from the pouch asking if I got a flat, "Yeah I got _a_ flat", too ashamed to tell her about the other three, and after getting so many I hand't been bothered to try and fold them back into the puch rather just throwing them in my panniers in a fit.

Absolutely wrecked and exhausted after the last week I make my way to Osaka Station, more ready than ever to catch the Shinkansen and land in Fukuoka. I make it there some hours later, the rest of the group already at the pub by the station a few drinks deep. I leave my suitcase outside, and meet them at a table, and relieve myself with a beer and stories.

---

Now here I am, back at the Yodogawa river some months later, planning another long cycle back to Kyoto just to experience it one more time, though this time I'm limiting myself to a single out and back.`